Cape Town - For 16 years, UYesu Unathi has been providing a safe, secure study environment and career advice to matric pupils in Khayelitsha.It s been a huge success, according to co-founder Raymond Xazana, and the organisation whose name means Jesus is with us , now caters for matric pupils from a number of impoverished schools in the sprawling suburb, such as Masiyile and Siphamandla high schools. UYesu Unathi has been running since 2000, dealing with the constraints of the community of Khayelitsha, but now we are more focused on education, especially for the matrics, because we found that many learners at this stage are prone to things like drugs and alcohol, leading to careless life decisions. It is important for these youngsters to make the right career decisions, help develop them, and help them to be responsible. That is our mission at this organisation, said Xazana.He said part of their focus was on the life of the community s children, and they also ran a feeding scheme for 200 children on Tuesdays and Thursdays, and a youth programme on Fridays.Xazana runs the organisation with 15 staff members.While he regards their work as successful, funding remains a challenge, Xazana said. Athi Geza is a tutor at the organisation and said it was a blessing in his life. I am glad I had the opportunity to join this organisation and share my knowledge which may be beneficial to the matrics. My life has changed since being here because I have proved my potential, he said.The organisation accommodates more than 25 pupils from destitute homes which are identified in partnership with the Khayelitsha Development Forum.Bongolwethu Mpakama and Minikazi Ndabeni, both 18, are among the pupils who say the centre has added value to their lives.Bongolwethu, who lives in a single-room home with his family of seven, told the Cape Argus he had a peaceful study environment at UYesu Unathi. Being here has helped me have more focus. As someone coming from a crowded home, this has helped me learn new things from other learners, and think long hard about my career choices, he said. In the future, Xazana said they would also like to assist the pupils in obtaining their drivers licences, which could help them secure employment. [email&#160;protected]Cape Argus