Cape Town - Cape Town s fire season has started with a serious blaze breaking out on Friday morning in the Red Hill area, hot on the heels of another on Devil s Peak that caused a major traffic jam on Thursday.The City of Cape Town s Fire and Rescue Services expects many more fires to break out in the Mother City over the coming months. Spokesman Theo Layne said this morning that fire season had come early in the city because of high emperatures, dry conditions and strong winds.He said seven vehicles, 33 firefighters and a SA National Parks (SANParks) helicopter had been deployed to the fire in Red Hill near Simon s Town and an extensive area of vegetation had been burnt. The fire is being fanned by a strong south-easterly wind. It is in the vicinity of the (Red Hill) informal settlement, but is still quite a distance away from the homes, said Layne.SANParks spokesman Philip Prins said the cause of the fire was suspected to be a broken power line. This is the third fire this week. Yesterday we had the Devil s Peak fire and on Wednesday there was the Tamboerskloof fire. We are expecting wildfires and vegetation fires as the season has started. We are as ready as we can be, said Prins.The Devil s Peak vegetation fire broke out in on lower slopes of the mountain on Thursday morning, causing the closure of De Waal Drive incoming and part of Hospital Bend. Some motorists were held up for well over an hour.Six fire engines, four water tankers and 58 firefighters were deployed to the fire on Thursday. SANParks firefighters assisted in dousing the blaze.Layne this morning urged people to be careful over the next few months as many fires were caused by negligence. He added that regular blazes were expected at this time of the year. There will be an increase in the number of vegetation fires.The fire season is not fixed, due to climate conditions which play a role in the number of fire incidents. There hasn t been rain for a few days now. The November wind conditions are strong, so people should expect more fires from now on. [email&#160;protected]Cape Argus