Cape Town - Destitute families from some of Cape Town s informal settlements say they feel dumped in Wolwerivier, an area more than 40km outside the city.They have to fend for themselves far away from civilisation , the families said.Wolwerivier, a temporary relocation area (TRA) along the West Coast, has also been called the new Blikkiesdorp by residents who said they had been forced to leave their jobs, furniture and loved ones behind in the informal settlements they were moved from.Wolwerivier was established two years ago as a stopover for families from Radar Road, Frankdale and Spoorkamp informal settlements, Table Bay, Ou Wolwerivier, Dunoon and Richwood Park. The closest town is Atlantis, 36km away. The 464 corrugated iron structures house about 250 families from Skandaalkamp, a community of subsistence farmers and rag pickers who lived on the Vissershok landfill site. At the time, their relocation was said to be a precondition for a planned extension of the Vissershok dump site. The city council said then that it was an opportunity for some of the poorest people to move to a better and cleaner living environment. When the Cape Argus visited the area, children could be seen roaming the streets, the nearest school at least 5km away in Vissershof. The only daycare centre, Sunshine Edu-Care, is close to the entrance of the TRA. The cramped 20 square metre cream and green homes bear a bleak resemblance to the shacks in Blikkiesdorp where some families have been living for 10 years, waiting to be relocated. I feel like I am being dumped here, said Daisy Pinto. She was moved from Ou Wolwerivier where she worked on a farm to support her 11-year-old daughter, Anastasia. The 56-year-old woman said the nearest shopping centre was in Dunoon, more than two hours commute away. I do not have money to travel that far; when we were at Ou Wolwerivier, things were simpler. Asked about the conditions in Wolwerivier and the proximity to schools and healthcare services on Monday, and again on Tuesday, the city council was unable to provide answers to the Cape Argus.Ruvimbo Moreen Muradzi, 31, originally from Dunoon, said the main issue was that there was limited access to schools. There is no school, clinic or police station. We have small tuckshops for food. When we travel, we have to take a taxi to Dunoon and from there, we have to take transport to Cape Town where we work, she said. Siena Erusmas, 65, had been moved from Richwood Park two years ago. She had worked as a domestic worker for wealthy families who would donate food and clothes to help her survive. Now she had to depend on the kindness of her neighbours, she said. I do not feel satisfied, it is too far from places of work. Far away from the people that used to give me food and clothes. I have no money or health to travel. I do not have an income and I don t get social grants. I rely on food from friends and I am blessed that they give me some, she said. Another resident, who did not want to be named, said: People have no form of income. It is difficult here and sad to see that we are creating an even bigger mess by destroying ourselves with the alcohol. gadeeja.abbas@inl.co.zaCape Argus