Cape Town - The hardest part of the job for young lay counsellors at Rape Crisis Cape Town is leaving the realities of their clients in the counselling room.Ronel Koekemoer, a 22 year-old lay counsellor at the organisation, said: It is difficult to retain hope in people and it makes me wary of places I considered safe . It is hard having to deal with the societal condemnation of rape survivors or the way people don t see the magnitude of the problem. It is very challenging knowing the extent and scale of sexual violence and seeing the world in the same way. Despite the harrowing stories she had heard during sessions with her clients, Koekemoer said there were an equal amount of hopeful stories. That is why it is difficult to find a specific incident that has affected me deeply. Each client's story represents another face to this violence and comes with its own unique realities. I am always touched when clients come back for counselling as it can be a difficult - albeit helpful - space to be in, she said. Returning clients create a more coherent picture of recovery and, for me, it is deeply touching when a survivor has changed their attitude towards themselves. Often with people who have experienced rape, survivors experience a lot of self-blame and guilt, she continued.With Koekemoer s experience, rape survivors think that what happened to them was their fault, that they did something wrong or deserved being raped.The most consistent change was how trauma played itself out in various unsettling ways, but then culminated in post-traumatic growth, said Koekemoer.For people interested in pursuing a career in rape counselling, Koekemoer said: The best advice is to be involved in fighting rape as soon as possible in as many ways as possible. This is an epidemic that needs to be fought on the home front and we just are not seeing enough of that. For more information, e-mail Rape Crisis on [email&#160;protected] or contact their 24-hour Crisis Line at 021 447 9762.[email&#160;protected]Cape Argus