Cape Town - According to Kosovo residents, one of their neighbours drunken antics caused three fires in three years, with the latest resulting in 120 people being left homeless.Chairman of the community leaders forum Lonwabo Jako claimed the fire that started on Wednesday afternoon was caused by the same woman behind fires in 2013 and 2014. It is the third time we are experiencing this pain in this area because of the very same person. We as leaders and members of the community agreed that the woman should be kicked out for good because she has been nothing but a troublemaker in the area, said Jako.Unemployed resident, Anyesi Saidi-Omari, 41, said she thought she was dreaming when she saw the flames licking her house. My son received a phone call from a neighbour saying there was fire. We quickly took a taxi home and when we arrived it was already too late because our shack had already burned down. We are so confused right now. We have lost everything and we are only left with the clothes we are wearing right now. We are just waiting for where life will lead us. Nocwaka Mangqangwana, who is pregnant, was at the clinic for a check-up, and when she returned, the fire had already reached her neighbour s home. We did not get a chance to take out anything because when the fire started I was at the clinic, so when I got back the fire was already at my neighbour s shack. I could not do anything because I was alone - my husband was at work. I just gave up and locked my door and then left because the smoke was already all over the area. I am just worried about my unborn child. On the first week of next month I am giving birth and now my husband and I have to buy new clothes even though we had already bought everything for the baby. I am only left with my ID book. Ward 88 councillor Siphiwo Nqamnduku said: Our fellow residents have long been experiencing fire incidents. We urge the city council to build decent houses for people because cases like these happen each and every year. Fire and Rescue Services spokesman Theo Layne said there were no injuries reported.Cape Argus