Cape Town Residents of an informal settlement in Vygieskraal, Athlone, say many of the things they managed to rescue from a fire that destroyed 64 homes were later stolen while they were trying to pick up the pieces of their lives. More than 250 people were left homeless after the fire on Tuesday, which was caused by drug users in the community, according to the residents. If there were no drug users who use candles to smoke in this area, we would be still sitting in our shacks, community leader Nosiphiwo Kori said. It's the second time we've experienced this pain in this area, and what makes it worse is that it is the same issue. We managed to take out some belongings but the rest we couldn t. There is nothing more stressful than people who steal our stuff when we try to rescue them from the fire. I lost my fridge; we managed to take it out of the flames but now it is nowhere to be found. Someone must have stolen it. Yoliswa Posiso, 30, has been staying in Vygieskraal for nine years and said nothing hurt more than the fact that she would have to fork out for the same things she had bought in preparation for the festive season. Thursday, I was supposed to go to the Eastern Cape for the holidays but now I can t go because I am left with nothing.&quot;Even the few things I managed to take out (of the fire) were stolen. All my children s Christmas clothes are gone. I don t have money to buy more because I used every cent I had. Samantha Petersen, 30, said: I am very depressed and confused right now. I don t even know where to start because I am left with nothing, just the clothes I m wearing.&quot;We used our last money to buy the things we had. It is so sad to lose everything like this. We are really thankful that no one got injured but it is also sad that we are left with nothing. This is very traumatising for our children. The government should provide us with decent houses. Fire and Rescue Services spokeswoman Liezl Moodie said there were no injuries or fatalities. The city s Disaster Risk Management Service was activated to assist with relief. She said relief would be provided by the Mustadafin Foundation, but no emergency shelter has been provided by the city . The council s human settlements department has also provided starter kits to help residents rebuild their homes.Cape Argus