Cape Town - The more than 12 000 bottles of alcohol which have been confiscated at beaches around Cape Town can all be accounted for, mayoral committee member for safety and security JP Smith has said.Smith dispelled criticism that seized alcohol destined for a storage facility would leak on its way or simply disappear.Current records suggest beaches and public spaces along the Atlantic Seaboard have this year continued to have the highest number of bottles of alcohol confiscated over the festive season.From December 1 to 27 the city council s law enforcement officials seized 12 407 bottles of alcohol in total - 6 132 of those along the Atlantic Seaboard with just over 3 500 confiscated at Macassar and Gordon s Bay beaches.Responding to a letter which had been written by Douglas Hendry from Riebeek West, who had recommended that confiscated alcohol be discarded, Smith said this would be in contravention of the law. The city council cannot summarily dispose of the liquor as that would amount to theft, Smith said. In addition, the city council has to account for every impounded item. That is why detailed receipts are drafted and issued to the owner in the event that they do want to reclaim their goods - which some do - proving that the liquor is appropriately impounded and stored. A proper record (which needs to be made available for auditing purposes) is also kept at our storage facility. Offenders are also issued with a R500 fine and can reclaim their alcohol after paying the impoundment fee. But Hendry also wanted to know: What does eventually happen to this confiscated booze? Does anyone know? To erase any doubts, pour it down the nearest drains at the beach, give the fish a hangover! Smith explained: Where impounded goods - in this case alcohol - are not claimed within 90 days of the impoundment, the city council has the right to sell or destroy the goods. (To dispose of it) on the beach or into a drain is irresponsible, since that would have an environmental impact and would be against the law. Cape Argus