Cape Town - Millions of South Africans without satellite television may not have access to prime time news should the SABC and free-to-air broadcaster e.tv have their way.The public broadcaster has requested its licensing conditions be amended to remove the requirement that it airs news during prime time, after e.tv made a similar submission last week.The submissions are before the Independent Communications Authority of South Africa (Icasa) with e.tv citing a drop in viewers as its motivation.At the time, the SABC protested the submission by e.tv, saying it would put unfair pressure on its most watched channel, SABC 1. The public broadcaster has now made a similar submission, meaning it too might not be broadcasting news when the majority of South Africans are watching TV between 6pm and 9.30pm. On Sunday, SABC spokesman, Kaiser Kganyago declined to comment on the submission to Icasa, saying he wanted to first consult with senior management and the broadcaster s lawyers.He said the submission was compiled by their regulatory division, with members of top management also giving an input. The SABC argued the approval of e.tv s application would unfairly grant the free-to-air channel flexibility with respect to scheduling of their programmes, whilst the SABC does not have that privilege . Prime time share movement shows South Africans follow dramas across the three most watched free-to-air schedules. In its application, the SABC noted the Broadcasting Policy of 1999 that 'envisages a broadcasting system that fosters pluralism in the provisions of news views and information'.&quot;The SABC asked Icasa to deny e.tv s application. The SABC respectfully submits the prime time flexibility is required by all free-to-air broadcasting services, hence the request for a review of the whole FTA licensing framework. E.tv cited a drop in audience numbers in its submission, requesting it no longer aired news during prime time and wanted the flexibility to move the news so they can remain relevant to their audience .Audience numbers were in steady decline since 2014, it said. In 2013 they had an average of 3 million viewers and that dropped to an average of 652 033 last year and an average of 512 000 viewers this year. Last year, e.tv tried to stem audience loss on prime time bulletins by moving time slots from 8.30pm to 6.30pm and rebranding it eNewsDirect. The 6.30pm slot is not meeting its objectives and revenue had declined and we are unable to maximise profitability, their application read. If the application is successful, e.tv intends to move news to 10.30pm and introduce a weekday bulletin at 6pm.The DA s spokeswoman for communications, Phumzile van Damme, said they were looking forward to engaging with Icasa on the matter when the regulatory body appeared before the parliamentary committee on Tuesday. Icasa has always held the position that prime time is the right time for broadcasters to broadcast local content when the majority of South Africans are expected to be watching TV. It must stick to this position. She said a large number of South Africans watched prime time TV and all free-to-air broadcasters, in particular the SABC as South Africa s public broadcaster, had an obligation to facilitate news and educational programming in the national interest. &quot;The DA will voice its objection to this when Icasa appears before the Portfolio Committee on Communications on Tuesday. We will also request that Icasa, which has the constitutional obligation to regulate broadcasting in the public, spell out its position on the canning of prime time news. [email&#160;protected]Cape Argus